# 19120029-Deepak-sharma-MME  Term paper topic:-Innovation in Marketing Channels

Abstract:-
In recent years, the context of global trade as market structures and strategies evolve has brought about a more complex concept of marketing channels, with segmentation or re-intervention, merging multiple channels and new roles / technologies emerging as new challenges. In this context, innovation in marketing channels becomes a complex, multi-sectoral, multi-sectoral project that requires collaboration and collaboration in various organizations within the supply chain network. In recent years, innovation processes in marketing channels have become more dynamic and faster, especially following changes driven by technologies that allow for the adoption of more effective organizational solutions.

1. Marketing Channels:-
 Evolutionary Overview Innovation in marketing channels is a theme that has been managed with reference to specific innovations or specific categories of topics within channels. Few studies have been done with a view to the whole channel. Major contributions focus on innovation in retrieval as 'brand innovation' in distribution companies (Dawson, 2001; Dupuis, 2000; Castaldo, 2001), or as renaming in supply chain. In this regard, much attention has been given to technology issues, especially those related to information and communication technology (ICT), and the implications of these technologies that may involve marketing channels (Kim et al., 2006; Hausman, Stockb, 2003). A few contributions that focus on the whole channel (Gundlach et al., 2006), highlighted certain aspects, such as the effects of innovation on the dynamics of relationships between channel members (Gupta, Loulou, 1998), and impact. of the institutional, economic, social and cultural context of new international channels (Bello et al., 2004). Therefore, in existing literature, a view that does not fully comprehend the continuity of the relationship between the value chains that rise upstream and downstream. In addition, there is a lack of analysis of how innovation can affect the role of marketing channels, such as linkages between production systems and end markets.
This work aims to analyze the theme of innovation in marketing channels with a focus on the entire channel, with reference to its structure and flow (information, physical, negotiating), which operates and integrates all subjects. The analysis aims to provide a conceptual framework on which the future research and data can be conducted to take into account the extent and effects of the changes taking place, as a result of innovation.
In this context, innovation in marketing channels becomes a complex, multi-sectoral, multi-sectoral task that requires collaboration and collaboration between various organizations within a supply chain network, with a large part of the design process and resulting outcomes at the customer-seller interaction level.

2. Drivers of Innovation in Marketing Channels:--
With reference to marketing channels, the concept of innovation should be considered in the context of the double layer in which it manifests itself. On the other hand, it should be considered a strategic task for both industries and distribution firms to gain competitive advantage in the distribution process. On the other hand, it should be seen as a dynamic process of economic activity for distribution systems. Following this changing process, new distribution methods are emerging, providing new services to existing ones. In both cases, the innovation arises from the decisions of the firms of the channels, which are highly involved with their partners, up and down their network. This introduces new features that are more focused on a specific network, in addition to individual firms. In recent years, innovation processes in marketing channels have become more dynamic and faster, especially following changes driven by technologies that allow for the adoption of more effective organizational solutions. As a result, increased competition for all companies in the channel has emerged. Another factor that greatly encouraged new processes in marketing channels was the process of modernization of the retail industry in recent decades has strengthened and enriched the role of retailers. Even social changes and new behavioral patterns of last resort, encourage new inventions designed to incorporate new prices related to consumer goods and their distribution systems (e.g., compliance and compliance with social, environmental and ethical standards in production processes). These influential factors have always been active in the context of strong emphasis on competitive flexibility, both at the horizontal level (between producers and between retailers) and at a direct level. Such changes have taken place with the development of private label products, the emergence of retail sales, increased river integration by manufacturers (e.g., manufacturer-owned retail stores and factory outlets) and, conversely, the increasing integration of retailer supply chain. The motivation for innovation in distribution channels has been categorized as technically based, referring to the opportunities offered by the invention of information and communication technology (ICT), and market-based (Castaldo, 2001; Cardinal, 2005). Market-based factors may, in turn, be differentiated from demand-based factors, related to changes in the characteristics and behavior of customers the companies want to comply with (Kaufman-Scarborough, Forsythe, 2009), and competition-based factors, with specific reference. in the fragmentation and rapid response to the last resort for change. Most of the time, this logic is based on the principles of time-based competition (Hum, Sim, 1996; Brondoni, 2005), emphasizing the importance of time flexibility in the pursuit of competitive advantage, as well as planning marketing strategies in a competitive manner. , in some cases in addition to the need for storage.

For the remainder of the work, new designation of marketing channels will be analyzed by looking at all types of channels and topics, not just those in the distribution chain, and all types of products will be considered. Alternative considerations will be developed, where appropriate, between commodities, on the one hand, and larger / industrial assets, on the other. The analysis will be done based on three different perspectives:
A. Technological Perspective: What are the features of technological innovation to improve corporate interaction with the need for retention.
 B. Relationship vision: What establishment fields can be developed, in terms of direct relationships between firms in the marketing channel.
 C. Structure of the structure: What new channel configurations are possible.
The technical concept (A) can be categorized as a renaming in the direct relationship between firms and the invention of the relationship in relation to the final need, as follows:
A.1. Innovation in direct relationships between firms.
A.1.1. Logistics and Electronic Data Interchange.
A.1.2. Inventory Management Inventory.
 A.1.3. Collaborative Planning and Completion Planning, as well as Vendor-Managed Phase Management
. A.1.4. E-procurement, E-sourcing.
A.2. New innovation in relationships and need for sustainability.
 A.2.1. Checkout technology.
A.2.2. Electronic and mobile payments.
A.2.3. Range distances, online sales.
A.2.4. Self-help technology.
From the point of view (B), innovation in marketing channels may occur in a number of fields, which do not represent the new product itself, but are industries where firms can find new solutions, as follows:
B. 1. Procurement process for retailers.
B. 2. Trade Marketing.
 B. 3. Phase Management.
 B. 4. Private label products for retailers.
B. 5. Corporate Social Responsibility and Diversity of Conduct.
B. 6. Customer care measures (e.g. Customer Relationship Management, loyalty schemes, etc.).
The idea of a building (C) referring to the new channel structures, renamed channels or multi-channel strategies can be divided into two fields:
 C1. New designs acquired by manufacturers: franchising, advanced marketing systems, multilevel franchising, manufacturer's retail stores, factory outlets, best-selling stores, e-commerce, many channels.
C2. New emerging innovations within the retail sector: Store Change Ideas, many channels.

Innovation in Vertical Relationships between Firms:-
According to the technical concept (A), the first field of innovation in industrial relations (A.1) is that of technology-based collaboration tools. That is, all strategies allow, through the use of ICT technology, to accelerate direct and efficient relationships, without interruption and to reduce stocks. Information and communication technology - the main technology on which the information management system is built between firms and firms - actually represents the field of Supply Chain Management (SCM) technology. In fact, global SCM is becoming a strategic target for many companies. In addition, the concept of SCM is now fully recognized as a standard procedure for managing new inventions and connections between firm networks. A permanent organization - project consortium Efficient Consumer Response (ECR) 1 - was established for this purpose, after being at the negotiating table for several years, where manufacturers and retailers worked to find better partnerships to find efficient supply chains. ECR aims to improve the supply chain as a whole and eliminate non-value-added activities. Key elements of ECR are effective replenishment, effective assortment, effective product presentation and effective promotion. These are ways to deal with major problems in retail stores, namely stock shortages and high stocks (Kotzab, 1999). There are three levels of cooperation that can be achieved in supply chain management. Level 1 (A.1.1) refers to the ordering of objects, with the aim of improving the production of concrete flow and information by improving the transport network, management of transport facilities, compliance management processes, and the establishment of such communication infrastructure. such as Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). With regard to object layout, some factors have resulted in the transition of objects beyond the simple technical arrangements allowed for advances in information management and communication. In particular, in a new relationship between the channel, which is characterized by the need for greater collaboration and integration, planning can be seen as a link between strategic direction and strategy that may differ or conflict between channel partners. To reduce the cost of stock management, administration and transportation, several organizational solutions have been developed, which are aimed at making the logistic cycle faster and flawless. These solutions can be developed using third-party operators or through the use of transportation resources, depending on the cross docking2 process.

New Innovation in Relationships and the Need for Storage The most important components of technology innovation in end-to-end customer relationships (A.2) payment technology (A.2.1), flexible prices (A.2.2) electronic and mobile payment systems (A.2.3), sales ranges, in particular Internet marketing (A.2.4), and Self-Service Technologies (SSTs), such as marketing equipment and multimedia products (A.2.5). Checkout or Point of Sale (POS) technology (A.2.1) is used in areas where sales are possible. ‘Checkout’ refers to the POS terminal or higher usually in the hardware and software used for payment, equivalent to an electronic cash register. The POS terminal controls the marketing process through a visual interface accessible to the vendor. Future technological improvements are aimed at web-based POS software that can work on any computer with an internet connection and a supported browser, without any additional software installation or manual updates required. The benefits of POS technology are in their ability to better manage inventory, by combining sales data with price and purchase costs. This allows the company to evaluate the profitability of each product and to manage inventory more accurately and quickly. In addition, with the rotation and production rate data, it is possible to increase product display in the store by using some space management software.

4. Innovation in Channel Relationships:-
 In terms of technology (A), the first category of innovation in industrial relations (A.1) is that of technology-based collaboration tools. That is, all strategies allow, through the use of ICT technology, to accelerate direct and effective relationships, without disruption and to reduce stocks. Information and communication technology - a key technology in which information management systems are built between firms and firms - actually represents the field of Support Management (SCM) technology. In fact, global SCM is becoming a strategic target for many companies. In addition, the concept of SCM is now fully recognized as a standard procedure for managing new inventions and communication between firms networks. A permanent organization - project consortium Efficient Consumer Response (ECR) 1 - was formed for this purpose, after being at the negotiating table for several years, where manufacturers and retailers worked to find better relationships to find effective chains. ECR aims to improve the supply chain as a whole and to eliminate non-complementary activities. The key elements of ECR are efficient filling, effective assortment, effective product presentation and effective promotion. These are ways to deal with major problems in retail stores, namely stock shortages and high stocks (Kotzab, 1999). There are three levels of cooperation that can be achieved in supply chain management. Level 1 (A.1.1) refers to the ordering of objects, with the aim of improving the production of physical flow and information by improving the transport network, transport management, compliance management systems, and the establishment of such communication infrastructure. such as Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). In terms of object layout, some factors have resulted in the transition to more than simple technical systems allowed to improve information management and communication. In particular, in a new relationship between the channel, which is characterized by the need for greater collaboration and integration, planning can be seen as a link between strategic direction and strategies that may differ or conflict between channel partners. In order to reduce the cost of stock management, administration and transportation, several organizational solutions have been developed, which are aimed at making the transportation cycle faster and more efficient. These solutions can be developed using third-party operators or by using transport resources, depending on the cross docking2 process.

New Innovation in Relationships and the Need for Consistency The most important components of technology development in end-to-end customer relationships (A.2) payment technology (A.2.1), flexible prices (A.2.2) electronic and mobile payment systems (A.2.3), ranges marketing, particularly Internet marketing (A.2.4), and Self-Service Technologies (SSTs), such as marketing assets and multimedia products (A.2.5). Checkout or Point of Sale (POS) technology (A.2.1) is used in areas where sales are possible. ‘Checkout’ refers to a POS terminal or higher usually hardware and payment software, equivalent to an electronic cash register. The POS terminal controls the marketing process through a visual interface accessible to the merchant. Future technological advances are intended for web-based POS software that can work on any computer with an internet connection and a supported browser, without the addition of additional software or manual updates required. The benefits of POS technology are in their ability to better manage assets, by combining sales data with price and purchase costs. This allows the company to evaluate the profitability of each product and manage more accurate and faster inventory. Additionally, with rotation data and production rate, it is possible to increase product display in the store by using some space management software.

5. Retail Change and Channel Structure:-
 From a structural point of view (C), the development of marketing channels refers to changes in channel structure, the development of new channels and the resulting process of splitting, redistribution or upgrading of multiple channels. Analysis can be achieved by differentiating between manufacturer-led innovation (C.1) and innovation due to internal distribution industry (C.2) methods. Manufacturers' innovations (C.1) are primarily concerned with research into solutions that can:
 - Protect or improve the product, by using extensive distribution controls that can ensure consistent application of marketing policies at the sales level (price, links, promotions, store and property image, and visual sales).
 - Strengthen relationships with end customer, even with service policies.
 - Achieve maximum profit by including lower-value jobs in the value chain; and
- Reduce channel by reducing mediation levels.
6. Conclusions and Emerging Issues:-	
The analysis of this study was intended to contribute to the idea of renaming in marketing channels, which was not limited to a few specific naming features or individual steps of the channel, and which was considered by the channel as a whole. The need for this perspective stems from the fact that in fact many new things in marketing channels happen in collaborative work, the results of which can only be explored in a broader perspective. Indeed, manufacturers, retailers, retailers or customers are becoming increasingly sophisticated to be analyzed as separate categories. The role of retailers and partners seems to have changed when it comes to activities such as product design, pricing, purchasing and manufacturing. Private labels, online markets and duplication planning are three aspects where the roles of manufacturers, retailers, retailers and consumers are becoming increasingly vague. The proposed division in this work, The analysis of this study was intended to contribute to the idea of renaming in marketing channels, which is not limited to just a few naming features or individual steps of the channel, and considered by the channel as a whole. The need for this perspective stems from the fact that in fact many new things in marketing channels happen in a collaborative work, the results of which can only be viewed from a broader perspective. Indeed, manufacturers, retailers, retailers or customers are becoming increasingly sophisticated to be analyzed as separate categories. The role of retailers and partners seems to have changed when it comes to activities such as product development, pricing, purchasing and manufacturing. Private labels, online markets and duplicate editing are three aspects where the role of producers, marketers, retailers and consumers is increasingly obscure. The proposed classification for this function follows

Reference:-
Agatz N.A.H., Fleischmann M., Van Nunen J.A.E.E., E-Fulfillment and Multi-Channel Distribution – A Review, European Journal of Operational Research, n. 187, 2008, pp. 339-356. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2007.04.024 
Alderson W., Marketing Behavior and Executive Action. A Functionalist Approach to Marketing Theory, Irwin, Homewood, 1957. 
Bello D.C., Lohtia R., Sangtani V., An Institutional Analysis of Supply Chain Innovations in Global Marketing Channels, Industrial Marketing Management, vol. 33, n. 1, January, 2004, pp 57-64. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2003.08.011
